#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

Elections are an important event for GIKIAA. This is where new candidates get elected into the executive council that govern and drive the GIKIAA.


= Roles =

Elections has three types of people:

  * Candidates
  * Voters
  * Election Commissioner (EC)

= Election Lifecycle = 

  # The Election Commissioner (EC) goes to the admin portion of the website and defines the seats for which people can take part in elections. These seats can be "President", "Vice President" etc.
  # The Administrator marks the elections as started
  # Registered alumni can go to the Elections page and nominate themselves for a given seat. You cannot nominate yourself for more than one seat. When you nominate yoruself, you are asked to give a URL for your publicity page (this can be edited later as well).
  # Once an anyone nominates themselves, the seat is mentioned on their profile such as "Iqbal is campigning for (seat). To vote for him, click here (link)". Upon clicking the link, you are shown a voting page for the candidate with a button to vote. When you click the vote button, you are asked "Voting is not reversable, are you sure you want to vote for (name) as (seat)?" with 'yes' and 'no' options. Once a person votes, he cannot vote on the same seat again (unique constraint). The time of voting is always saved with the vote.
  # Each registered alumni can come then go to any candidate's profile and vote for them.
  # Each registered alumni can also click on the Elections Tab (only visible when the elections have been turned on). There is a list of seats followed by a list of candidates under each. Next to the candidates there is a link to their campign page, their names link to their profiles and finally a button to vote. When you click the vote link you are taken to the voting page of the candidate as mentioned in Point 4 above.
  # A candidate may step down from a position. In that case the candidate will loose all votes. These voters will become free to vote for the person on the same seat again.
  # The EC has the option of ending the elections. In this case, the winners will be announced on the elections page, voting will be stopped and links for voting will no longer appear on the candidate's page