#summary Implementation details of the mentorship scheme
#labels Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =

The mentorship scheme is designed to pair seasoned alumni with junior alumni/students. The primary narrative for this feature was written by M. Ali Khattak (j.secretary.gikiaa@googlemail.com) and improved upon by Nash.

== Mentor ==

Sophia graduated from GIKI with a distinction and went on to join
Schlumberger as a Wireline Engineer. After eight well-renumerated years of
employment travelling to exotic locations around the world, working on rigs
not very different in terms of gender breakdown from her alma, she is now
based at the corporate headquarters pushing paper. Realising she has some
time to spare, she catches up with her batchmate Jeera who has recently
registered himself on the new alumni website. She logs on to Gikialumni.com
and registers herself, and clicks on the Mentoring Program link. A quick
glance through the mentor profiles convinces her that she too can be a
mentor and share her experience with fellow Gikians. She clicks on the "I
want to Mentor..." link and fills in an online form. The form asks her the category of her expertise (a drop down list), how many mentees
she is willing to take on (1-4) and a brief intro about herself as a mentor. Once she hits the Submit button, a corresponding 'Mentor Profile' is created and is added to the
Mentor's list. She also browses the Mentoring discussion forums and advises
a couple of recent grads on how best to present themselves at the
Schlumberger recruitment event. Please note that only Alumni cna become mentors. An Alumni is determined from a boolean field in their profile (set only by admin). If true, they are an alumni, if false, they are a student.
 
== Mentee ==

Asghar is an Undergrad/Grad/recent graduate from GIKI, he logs on to
gikialumni.com, registers himself and clicks on the link to the Mentoring
program. He browses through the list of mentor profiles - searchable on the basis
of their name, industry, experience and occupation (academic, employed,
entrepreneur etc) and checks out profiles of mentors that interest him. The
lure of the Oil and Gas industry has convinced Asghar to go for an
internship with OGDC, and he finds Sophia's profile quite suitable. He has
already posted queries on the Mentoring discussion board asking about the
relevance of knowing how to use AutoCad for an internship position he's
applying for at Descon. When browsing Mentor profiles, the page looks just like regular profile list but it also shows "Industry (category)", is available for mentorship (if the mentor has more slots left to mentor), A link to "request mentorship" (only applicable if there are slots left), A list of current and past mentees and a brief mentor bio (which the mentor enters when applying for becoming a mentor). Asghar can click on Sophia's name and he is taken to her mentor tab where there is a list of the same fields he saw on the Mentor list page but in addition, he sees a list of goals with each Mentee's name. He clicks on 'Request mentorship', where he is asked "send a message to the potential mentor), here he writes why he wants to become Sophia's Mentee then clicks send. This  fires off
a mentorship request to her GIKI Alumni inbox with a link to Asghar's profile and his message. Sophia checks out the request and
chooses to 'Accept' the request. She could also select 'decline' with a reason which she can type in. If she declines an email will be sent to the mentee.
 
== Mentorship ==

Asghar's name and a link to his profile shows up on Sophia's "Mentor
Profile" (a tab on her profile) under list of mentees. Both of them recieve a link to a form asking them to identify goals for the mentoring relationship with dates
(optional). A Goal can be entered by Mentor or Mentee but deletable only by Mentor or by goal creator. A goal has a one line brief description (text field), created on (auto-filled), created by (auto-filled), due by (calendar field) and completed (check box showing if this goal is completed or not) fields.

Goals are displayed on the Mentee's profile page under the Mentorship Tab.

Mentors who cannot take on anymore mentees do not have a "request mentorship" link appear on their profile.
 
Both Asghar and Sophia have the option to click on 'End Mentorship' which
terminates the relationship and they are asked to fill in the last feedback
form. This form asks "rate the mentor/mentee 1-5 (10 is great, 1 is really bad)" (drop down), a box for comments and a checkbox for "would you recommend mentor/mentee?".